{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang2057\deflangfe2057{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f44\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f45\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f46\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f47\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f48\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f49\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat7 \sbasedon10 \styrsid9578185 hilite13;}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \ssemihidden \styrsid5657906 footnote text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \super 
\sbasedon10 \ssemihidden \styrsid5657906 footnote reference;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid8916\rsid10169\rsid13638\rsid93710\rsid150266\rsid152018\rsid154490\rsid159983\rsid335349\rsid489374\rsid530842\rsid538846
\rsid609190\rsid738616\rsid750601\rsid788711\rsid986500\rsid994770\rsid1011759\rsid1072818\rsid1074940\rsid1114583\rsid1116832\rsid1133912\rsid1250843\rsid1261068\rsid1272945\rsid1441822\rsid1510305\rsid1516936\rsid1589770\rsid1655536\rsid1661844
\rsid1729584\rsid1798151\rsid1798375\rsid1837935\rsid1844853\rsid1854780\rsid2056525\rsid2186204\rsid2239029\rsid2256277\rsid2317221\rsid2318976\rsid2319664\rsid2360569\rsid2387215\rsid2387634\rsid2426688\rsid2431586\rsid2441709\rsid2641272\rsid2646830
\rsid2706782\rsid2777050\rsid2782821\rsid2823156\rsid2827876\rsid2910257\rsid2962354\rsid3016534\rsid3101476\rsid3152565\rsid3225391\rsid3425686\rsid3569672\rsid3637173\rsid3737865\rsid3747541\rsid3805613\rsid3808027\rsid3829735\rsid3896261\rsid3956572
\rsid4000893\rsid4011611\rsid4026149\rsid4075543\rsid4080031\rsid4207686\rsid4214411\rsid4215844\rsid4226254\rsid4263980\rsid4355244\rsid4402818\rsid4480526\rsid4538432\rsid4549146\rsid4588628\rsid4596667\rsid4616639\rsid4654502\rsid4801966\rsid4866934
\rsid4918548\rsid4946856\rsid5049123\rsid5051090\rsid5078644\rsid5114987\rsid5118393\rsid5248230\rsid5381866\rsid5508586\rsid5509076\rsid5525851\rsid5657906\rsid5704969\rsid5709782\rsid5711744\rsid5732280\rsid5777413\rsid5991628\rsid6184861\rsid6230228
\rsid6242491\rsid6296522\rsid6320143\rsid6489718\rsid6497897\rsid6502683\rsid6576603\rsid6628243\rsid6647873\rsid6896288\rsid7032122\rsid7102064\rsid7150126\rsid7226770\rsid7275406\rsid7353961\rsid7410278\rsid7479669\rsid7480592\rsid7566296\rsid7617770
\rsid7752768\rsid7805789\rsid7830706\rsid7866021\rsid7893136\rsid7930418\rsid7935119\rsid7961782\rsid8000742\rsid8065329\rsid8065496\rsid8074139\rsid8086687\rsid8158157\rsid8193640\rsid8195436\rsid8213289\rsid8274194\rsid8343761\rsid8395767\rsid8397097
\rsid8405566\rsid8414959\rsid8529520\rsid8535714\rsid8587827\rsid8588628\rsid8602312\rsid8611973\rsid8814345\rsid8992320\rsid8996466\rsid9047108\rsid9074744\rsid9185936\rsid9243670\rsid9249743\rsid9253350\rsid9272488\rsid9331083\rsid9375929\rsid9462671
\rsid9467425\rsid9528324\rsid9575489\rsid9578185\rsid9597485\rsid9896546\rsid9903947\rsid9983036\rsid10104867\rsid10116162\rsid10164297\rsid10180205\rsid10182039\rsid10235670\rsid10296804\rsid10363232\rsid10420818\rsid10501789\rsid10571416\rsid10617133
\rsid10695733\rsid10705191\rsid10818458\rsid10827784\rsid10908215\rsid10948132\rsid11016058\rsid11033519\rsid11090190\rsid11164874\rsid11168588\rsid11222342\rsid11276224\rsid11276350\rsid11277455\rsid11340449\rsid11418081\rsid11426160\rsid11543289
\rsid11622727\rsid11737072\rsid11747910\rsid11749132\rsid11761749\rsid11825533\rsid11885580\rsid11999202\rsid12015640\rsid12194948\rsid12205931\rsid12268344\rsid12279185\rsid12403018\rsid12482317\rsid12532396\rsid12615398\rsid12729688\rsid12733708
\rsid12792320\rsid12873806\rsid12934795\rsid13054640\rsid13054800\rsid13113514\rsid13138363\rsid13180557\rsid13376649\rsid13377252\rsid13654703\rsid13766814\rsid13843010\rsid13907524\rsid13973777\rsid14031912\rsid14056481\rsid14102114\rsid14109950
\rsid14113651\rsid14287645\rsid14314443\rsid14380132\rsid14419022\rsid14441500\rsid14515838\rsid14620626\rsid14633668\rsid14753699\rsid14765637\rsid14812909\rsid14836926\rsid14837101\rsid15010868\rsid15012667\rsid15018592\rsid15018778\rsid15087602
\rsid15097781\rsid15149919\rsid15156520\rsid15413630\rsid15425990\rsid15671218\rsid15931102\rsid15952751\rsid16018667\rsid16148026\rsid16148221\rsid16254969\rsid16274147\rsid16274192\rsid16346009\rsid16524184\rsid16608021\rsid16660438\rsid16715154
\rsid16727524\rsid16744037}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6502;}{\info{\title 156 ER 1047}{\author viky.martzoukou}{\operator joe.ury}{\creatim\yr2006\mo9\dy12\hr11\min43}{\revtim\yr2006\mo9\dy12\hr11\min43}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages3}
{\nofwords1236}{\nofchars7051}{\*\company University of London}{\nofcharsws8271}{\vern24579}}\paperw11906\paperh16838 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180
\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nojkernpunct\rsidroot9578185 \fet0
{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid5709782 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid5709782 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid5709782 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid5709782 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15671218 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid15671218\charrsid15671218   Neutral Citation Number: [1856] EWHC Exch J65
\par (1856) 11 Exch 781; 156 ER 1047 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15671218 {\b\insrsid15671218\charrsid15671218 
\par IN THE COURTS OF EXCHEQUER
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15671218 {\b\insrsid15671218\charrsid15671218   6 February 1856 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15671218 {\b\insrsid15671218\charrsid15671218 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15671218 {\b\insrsid15671218\charrsid15671218 B e f o r e :
\par ____________________
\par 
\par Between:
\par BLYTH
\par v
\par THE COMPANY OF PROPRIETORS OF THE BIRMINGHAM WATERWORKS
\par 
\par ____________________}{\b\insrsid16148221\charrsid15671218 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid994770 
\par }{\insrsid9578185 This was an appeal by the defendants against the decision of the judge of the County. Court of Birmingham}{\insrsid994770 .}{\insrsid9578185  The case was tried before
 a jury, and a verdict found for the plaintiff for the amount claimed by the particulars. The particulars of the claim alleged, that the plaintiff sought to recover for damage sustained by the plaintiff}{\insrsid994770  }{\insrsid9578185 
by reason of the negligence of the defendants in not keeping their water-pipes and the apparatus connected therewith in proper order. }{\insrsid994770 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9578185 The case stated that the defendants were incorporated by stat. 7 Geo. 4, c. cix. for the purpose of supplying Birmingham with water. }{\insrsid994770 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9578185 By the 84th section of their Act it wa
s enacted, that the company should, upon the laying down of any main-pipe or other pipe in any street, fix, at the time of laying down such pipe, a proper and sufficient fire-plug in each such street, and should deliver the key or keys of such fire-plug t
o
 the persons having the care of the engine-house in or near to the said street, and cause another key to be hung up in the watch-house in or near to the said street. By sect. 87, pipes were to be eighteen inches beneath the surface of the soil. By the 89t
h
 section, the mains were at all times to be kept charged with water. The defendants derived no profit from the maintenance of the plugs distinct from the general profits of the whole business, but such maintenance was one of the conditions under which the
y
 were permitted to exercise the privileges given by the Act. The main-pipe opposite the house of the plaintiff was more than eighteen inches below the surface. The fire-plug was constructed according to the best known system, and the materials of it were 
at the time of the accident sound and in good order. The apparatus connected with the fire-plug was as follows:}{\insrsid994770 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9578185 The lower part of a wooden plug was inserted in a neck, which projected above and formed part of the main. About the neck there was a bed of bri
ckwork puddled in with clay. The plug was also inclosed in a cast iron tube, which was placed upon and fixed to the brickwork. The tube was closed at the top by a moveable iron stopper having a hole in it for the insertion of the key, by which the plug wa
s loosened when occasion required it. }{\insrsid994770 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9578185 The plug did not fit tight to the tube, but room was left for it to move freely. This space was necessarily left for the purpose of easily and quickly removing the wooden plug to allow the water to flow. On the remova
l of the wooden plug the pressure upon the main forced the water up through the neck and cap to the surface of the street. }{\insrsid994770 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9578185 On the 24th of February, a large quantity of water, escaping from the neck of the main, forced its way through the ground into the 
plaintiff's house. The apparatus had been laid down 25 years, and had worked well during that time. The defendants' engineer stated, that the water might have forced its way through the brickwork round the neck of the main, and that the accident might hav
e
 been caused by the frost, inasmuch as the expansion of the water would force up the plug out of the neck, and the stopper being encrusted with ice would not suffer the plug to ascend. One of the severest frosts on record set in on the 15th of January, 18
5
5, and continued until after the accident in question. An incrustation of ice and snow had gathered about the stopper, and in the street all round, and also for some inches between the stopper and the plug. The ice had been observed on the surface of the 
ground for a considerable time before the accident. A short time after the accident, the company's turneock removed the ice from the stopper, took out the plug, and replaced it. }{\insrsid994770 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9578185 The judge left it to the jury to consider whether the company had used proper
 care to prevent the accident. He thought that, if the defendants had taken out the ice adhering to the plug, the accident would not have happened, and left it to the jury to say whether they ought to have removed the ice. The jury found a verdict for the
 plaintiff for the sum claimed. }{\insrsid994770 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9578185 Field for the appellant. There was no negligence on the part of the defendants. The plug was pushed out by the frost, which was one of the severest ever known. }{\insrsid994770 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9578185 The Court then called on Kennedy for the respondent. The comp
any omitted to take sufficient precautions. The fire-plug is placed in the neck of the main. In ordinary cases the plug rises and lets the water out; but here there was an incrustation round the stopper, which prevented the escape of the water. This might
 have been easily removed. It will be found, from the result of the cases, that the company were bound to take every possible precaution. The fact of premises being fired by sparks from an engine on a railway is evidence of negligence; }{
\i\insrsid9578185\charrsid5657906 Piggott v. Eastern Counties Railway Company}{\insrsid9578185  (3 C. B. 229), }{\i\insrsid9578185\charrsid5657906 Aldridge v. Great Western Railway}{\insrsid9578185  Compa}{\insrsid5657906 n}{\insrsid9578185 y.}{
\cs17\super\insrsid5657906 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super\insrsid8158157 \chftn }{\insrsid8158157 
 3 M. & Gr. 515; 4 Scott, N. R. 156; 1 Dowl. N. S. 247, S. C.}}}{\insrsid9578185  }{\insrsid1072818 It is the defendants' water, therefore they are bound to see that no injury is done to any one by it. An action
 has been held to lie for so negligently constructi}{\insrsid12015640 n}{\insrsid1072818 g a hayrick at the extremity of the owner's land, that, by reason of its spontaneous ignition, his neighbour's house was burnt down: }{
\i\insrsid1072818\charrsid12015640 Vaughan v. Menlove}{\insrsid1072818  (3 Bing. N. C. 468). He referred to }{\i\insrsid1072818\charrsid12015640 Wells v. Ody}{\insrsid1072818  (}{\insrsid12015640 1}{\insrsid1072818  
M. & W. 452). A scientific man could have foreseen it. If no eye could have seen what was going on, the case might have been different; but the company's servants could have seen, and actually did see, the ice which had collected about the plug. It is of 
the last importance that these plugs, which are fire-plugs, should be kept by the company in working order. The accident cannot be considered as having been caused by the act of God: }{\i\insrsid1072818\charrsid12015640 Siordet v. Hall}{\insrsid1072818 
 (4 Bing. 607). }{\insrsid12015640 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1072818 
ALDERSON, B. I am of opinion that there was no evidence to be left to the jury. The case turns upon the question, whether the facts proved shew that the defendants were guilty of negligence. Negligence is the omission to do something which a reasonable ma
n, guided upon those considerations which ordinarily regulate the conduct of human affairs, would do, or doing so}{\insrsid12015640 m}{\insrsid1072818 
ething which a prudent and reasonable man would not do. The defendants might have been liable for negligence, if, unintentionally, they omitted
 to do that which a reasonable person would have done, or did that which a person taking reasonable precautions would not have done. A reasonable man would act with reference to the average circumstances of the temperature in ordinary years. The defendant
s
 had provided against such frosts as experience would have led men, acting prudently, to provide against; and they are not guilty of negligence, because their precautions proved insufficient against the effects of the extreme severity of the frost of 1855
,
 which penetrated to a greater depth than any which ordinarily occurs south of the polar regions. Such a state of circumstances constitutes a contingency against which no reasonable man can provide. The result was an accident, for which the defendants can
not be held liable. }{\insrsid5704969 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1072818 MARTIN, B. I think that the direction was not correct, and that there was no evidence for the jury. The defendants are not responsible, unless there was negligence on their part. To hold otherwise would be to make the company responsib
le as insurers. }{\insrsid5704969 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1072818 
BRAMWELL, B. The Act of Parliament directed the defendants to lay down pipes, with plugs in them, as safety-valves, to prevent the bursting of the pipes. The plugs were properly made, and of proper material; but there was an accumulation 
of ice about this plug, which prevented it from acting properly. The defendants were not bound to keep the plugs clear. It appears to me that the plaintiff was under quite as much obligation to remove the ice and snow which had accumulated, as the defenda
n
ts. However that may be, it appears to me that it would be monstrous to hold the defendants responsible because they did not foresee and prevent an accident, the cause of which was so obscure, that it was not discovered until many months after the acciden
t had happened. }{\insrsid5704969 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1072818 Verdict to be entered for the defendants.}{\insrsid9578185 
\par }}